March 10th 2024

# Summary of the Day's Progress
Gijs uploaded simulations done by Guangyu to the LAC servers and I figured out
how to `scp` (secure copy) the files via the terminal via tunneling

## Details
I had emailed Guangyu-Sun of EPFL that I wanted "to know how physical parameters vary in the TCV divertor in L-mode" and I therefore needed "SOLPS-ITER simulations which cover a realistic range of scenarios for different uncontrolled and controlled conditions in the divertor." Further I wanted "to obtain a matrix of N2 and D2 input fluxes that provide a range of attached to detached divertor plasma conditions."

Such a scan was already done apparently and Guangyu sent it to me (units are #particles/sec for both axes and the values in the table are simulation ID#s). I have converted it to markdown here:

| Npuff → Dpuff↓ |  0e20 |  1e20 |  2e20 |  3e20 |  4e20 |  5e20 |  8e20 | 12e20 |
|-------|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
| 2.5e20 | 127676 | 127683 | 127690 | 127697 | 127705 | 127712 | 127719 | 127726 |
| 5e20  | 127677 | 127684 | 127691 | 127698 | 127706 | 127713 | 127720 | 127727 |
| 7.5e20 | 127678 | 127685 | 127692 | 127699 | 127707 | 127714 | 127721 | 127728 |
| 10e20 | 127679 | 127686 | 127693 | 127700 | 127708 | 127715 | 127722 | 127729 |
| 12.5e20 | 127680 | 127687 | 127694 | 127701 | 127709 | 127716 | 127723 | 127730 |
| 15e20 | 127681 | 127688 | 127695 | 127702 | 127710 | 127717 | 127724 | 127731 |
| 17.5e20 | 127682 | 127689 | 127696 | 127703 | 127711 | 127718 | 127725 |  |

### Tunneling Procedure
The problem with using `scp` to copy the files to my local computer from the lac server is that the machines which hold the files I am looking for
actually exist on the `lac912` server. Because of this one has to first "tunnel" through `lac912` to get to the files on the machine of interest (e.g., `lac8`) 

One could do this with `WinSCP`, but I have a mac...so I must use the terminal...

#### Step 1:
Open a terminal window and type:  
`ssh -L 2222:lac8.epfl.ch:22 savona@lac912.epfl.ch`  
To get tunneling connection to `lac8` via `lac912`. `-L` is an option which forwards local connections to the remote server.

#### Step 2:
In a *separate* terminal windown type:
`scp -r -P 2222 savona@127.0.0.1:/NoTivoli/derks/SOLPS/ /Users/isaacsavona/Desktop`
- The `-r` option recursively copies files and the
- The `-P` option specifies that the port will be given (i.e, 2222) on the `localhost`
- `savona@127.0.0.1:/NoTivoli/derks/SOLPS/` is the `remote-username@localhost:/desired/directory/ /desired/destination/for/directory`

## Next Steps
0. Understand how the various impurities are stored in each shot struct as `shot.data.na_correct.value` in each `TCV(simnum).mat` file. It is a 98x34x17 array and based on previous simulation structs that I have been sent, the first two dimensions are for spatial coordinates and the last dimension is for storing each impurity density separately. In this case, at most 17 types of impurities, as some columns may be empty.
1. Figure out how to define `nZ` as this can include differently energized N or C impurities. May need to ask Thomas what he has initial tried when created the MPC.
2. Figure out how to make 0-D parameters out of `p0` and `nZ` stored in the files that have been scp'ed

## Bigger Picture
Once `p0` and `nZ` are decided upon, I can plot the simulations in 
`p0`, `nZ` to see how well the simulations from the table (above) cover the space. *Why is this important?* Since the intent is to find some fit for the data via Baysian Linear Regression or perhaps some Least-Squares Regression on some fit function, it is first important to make sure the data being fit isn't too sparse in the paramter space of interest. *Why are you making a fit?* This fit will form the map which constitutes the basis of the "model-side" of the observer that will be built. That is, given the MPC's state -- `p0` and `nZ` -- this map should give some measured value by a real sensor in TCV.