March 12th 2024

# Summary of the Day's Progress
Went to a meeting with Gijs

## Details

### Gitlab solution:
At the end of the day I chatted with Bob and Jorn who told me I could, despite what ITC says, access the DIFFER Gitlab from my personal machine and don't need a separate machine. Apparently the steps are:  
1. Sign on to the DIFFER guest Wifi
2. ssh into some simulation server
3. Set up Gitlab account at gitlab.differ.nl  

I should definitely check the DIFFER Wiki on gitlab to be sure though, according to Bob and Gijs.

### The plan:
The plan for the mapping went something like:  
1. Get an average $p_0$ and $n_Z$ over the outer leg of the divertor.  
2. Check the distribution of the 55 sims in this $p_0$ and $n_Z$ space. 
3. Choose a synthetic diagnostic to map to from the ones available: **DSS, bolometer, baratron and ASDEX-type pressure gauges, FIR**. Make note of which ones have been used in RTC schemes before (i.e., fast enough).
4. Map $p_0$ and $n_Z$ to the chosen synth diag's output (e.g., the intensity reading from the FIR lines). If the fit doesn't look like it gives unique points, then try to find a physical parameter you can map to instead which is deducible from the diag (e.g., P<sub>rad</sub> from the bolometers).

### The struggle with part 1 of the plan:
I struggled with the first part because the data that Gijs sent me (i.e., `TCV[simnum].mat`) doesn't have matrices in the proper form to be isolated by region (e.g., outer divertor region).

### The solution* to part 1 of the plan:
Sent and then got an email back from Guangyu which describes that I need `solps_get(shot,'vol')` to get information from a particular volume.

"For instance, to average the electron density in the outer divertor, use `sum(sum(ne.*reg_odiv,1),1)./sum(sum(reg_odiv,1),1)`" -- Guangyu Sun

### The catch*:
I can't run `solps_get` because I still need access to those servers that David Coster knows about.

## Next Steps
1. Setup Gitlab account.
2. Ask Gijs to run the `solps_get` to get the volume average values of $p_0$ and $n_Z$ over the outer divertor leg.
3. Look at simulation number plots in $p_0$ and $n_Z$ space


## Bigger Picture
Deciding on the outer divertor region to define the volume average of $p_0$ and $n_Z$ and a synthetic diagnostic --> $f(\bar{p}_0, \bar{n}_Z)$ --> using $f(\bar{p}_0, \bar{n}_Z)$ the kalman filter residual becomes $K(y - f(p_0, n_Z))$ where $y$ are the real sensor measurements 