March 15th 2024

# Summary of the Day's Progress
Emailed Gijs, Guangyu, and Luke Simons (about RADCAM).

## Details
### Gijs thinks I should...  
### 1. Plot $q_{tar}$ againt $\bar{p}_0, \bar{n}_Z$ (to see if sparsity in data is bad):
**N.B.** $q_{tar}$ = `q_par*sintheta + gamma_ion*E_ion` (conductive heat + recombination potential) Check out a paper by Stangeby2018. "Sparsity itself is only a problem if the q_tar (as starting point) is changing too quickly".
### 2. Investigate the relationship between input and output:
**N.B.** `[p0;nz] = G*[D2_flux;N2_flux]`, find G and hopefully it is somewhat diagonal such that they decouple.

### Guangyu said...
FIR is a good synth diag for my purposes and I should look into the synth diag for RADCAM, about which I have emailed Luke Simons.

I have not yet heard back from Luke.

## Next Steps
0. Setup a Gitlab repo linked to his directory. Update the github, and push this local main to the DIFFER gitlab repo.
1. Make sure that Gijs runs the simulations through the FIR synth diagnostic.
2. Plot $q_{tar}$ againt $\bar{p}_0, \bar{n}_Z$.
3. Solve `[p0;nz] = G*[D2_flux;N2_flux]` with fit techniques learned in class...confer with Jorn...
4. Think about normalizing data:
- https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/data-prep/transform/normalization
5. Think about just using $N+[0,7]$ as opposed to including SOLPS-ITER carbon impurities, because if it works for the observer, then making this observer is more generalizable.
6. See how **Next Steps** 1 and 2 change as you average over different reagion.

## Bigger Picture
Deciding on the *outer divertor region* or *inner+outer divertor region* (or *some other area*) to define the volume average of $p_0$ and $n_Z$ and a synthetic diagnostic (=start with FIR) --> $f(\bar{p}_0, \bar{n}_Z)$ --> using $f(\bar{p}_0, \bar{n}_Z)$ part of the kalman filter update step becomes $K(y - f(p_0, n_Z))$ where $y$ are the real sensor measurements 